citizens.
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
Duke Hobbs' career of service includes his stint with the 79th Infantry Division in Europe during World War II, but later in the Air Force, working reconnaissance in England during the Cold War.
He's A&M class of 1947, but like so many of that time, his actual graduation was delayed a couple of years by his war service, a veteran of the Battle of the Bulge who recalls the unbearable cold of that winter of 1945.
His recollections are sharper of the good times of the European campaign,
like after Germany surrendered and his traveling variety show called You've Had It, Joe, where you might have sworn he was indeed one of the Andrews sisters.
We'll explain that right now.
Welcome to Veterans of the Valley, Duke Hobbs.
We'll talk about that in a little bit.
That's a great story, Duke.
First, I want to talk to you about how you remained in Texas.
And it's a fascinating story because had it not been for a winter snowstorm in Rocky Mountains, you might have never come back to Texas.
You might have been an Oregon boy, never been at A&M, never married Laura.
It's funny how that worked out.
Talk about that.
Oh, that's true.
I was 10 years old and my father died when I was three.
My mother had remarried and my stepfather was an undertaker.
And he owned a funeral home in Cherokee, Iowa, and sold it and built another funeral home in the central part of the state, closer to where my mother's family lived.
And this was in the height, well, the early days of the Depression then.
And he went broke.
It didn't work out.
We moved around the state, lived in three other places, three other towns after that, and never could get things going.
He had a good friend from World War I days who lived out in Oregon.
And he was also an undertaker.
And so they got in touch with each other.
And this fellow in Oregon asked him to come out there and join him.
They'd form a partnership and a funeral home in some place in Oregon.
Right.
So this is in 1936.
So we were going to go to Oregon.
The problem, snowstorm hit the Rockies and completely blocked off the highways going through Colorado and Wyoming.
So the only way he'd get to Oregon was to go south through Texas and out Highway 80 and then on up the West Coast.
We got to Pecos, and we were eating all of our meals out on the highway, roadside parks, things like that.
My brother and I thought it was just one consistent, continuous picnic all the way through.
But anyway, we stopped in Pecos to get a dime's worth of paper plates for our next picnic dinner out in the desert.
And while we were stopped there, there was a lawyer there in town who was originally from Iowa.
He didn't see many Iowa license plates in West Texas in 1936.
So he hailed my dad, and they started talking and found they had a number of mutual acquaintances.
So anyway, he heard the story.
and where he was headed and suggested that dad go across the street then to the Pecos Funeral Home or Pecos Furniture Store, which was owned by the same person who owned the Pecos Funeral Home.
And ultimately, that man offered dad a job at the funeral home.
He took it.
And we lived in Pecos.
So I graduated from Pecos High School seven years later when I was 17.
Grew up in Pecos, Texas.
That's right.
You wanted to go to West Point, but you just couldn't find out a way to get there, how to get into West Point.
So you figured you wanted to be in the military.
You wanted to go to a military school.
So Texas A&M was your next choice.
That's right.
You took the train from Pecos to College Station.
You didn't like it at first, did you?
The train ride was fine, but College Station, no.
When we pulled into the railroad station on the old sunbeam,
We saw a group, there were quite a few of us freshmen on that train, by the way, and that we saw a group of people standing outside and we assumed this was a nice welcoming committee and we thought that was a very, very nice thing for them to be doing.
Well, it turned out this welcoming committee was made up of some upperclassmen who wanted to introduce themselves to their incoming fresh red meat, new freshmen for A&M.
About the first month or four or five weeks or so, I absolutely detested it, every bit about it.
And so I wrote to my mother and dad, told them that I had really made a mistake, I had to come back home.
Well,
In those days, there were no telephones on campus.
And even if there were, I couldn't have afforded a phone call anyhow.
So the letter was the only way of correspondence or communication period.
They never answered the letter.
So as a consequence, I couldn't go home.
I had to stay.
And after another month or so, I fell in love with the place and heaven's sakes, Texas A&M is
Never been anything except heaven from that time on.
It's meant an awful lot to you.
I know that.
Probably a good thing that your parents didn't write back to you.
They probably said, hey, let him tough it out and we'll see if we get a second letter.
I think it was a real blessing.
You went into the Army in 1944 after your fish year like so many did of that time.
El Paso and then the Camp Hood for basic training and where because of your military that you got into Texas A&M, you got to be a squad leader.
You got the black armband, but you lost that black armband.
Tell them why.
Well, we were out on a night maneuver one night and I was to lead my squad across Cowhouse Creek and attack a stone building.
Another squad of our platoon was to set up a base of fire in the back of it.
Then we come across in a flanking attack and hit the building.
Well, we crossed Cowhouse Creek, all right.
Bear in mind, this is at night.
And the second time we crossed Cowhouse Creek, I decided there was something wrong.
About that time, we heard the firing of the other squad.
We were lost.
So needless to say, I lost my temporary stripes then.
Your first demotion in the Army.
That's right.
Shipped off to Europe, and like so many, went from Boston to...
We landed in Glasgow.
Landed in Glasgow, and you went by an old luxury liner, the Ile de France.
The Ile de France.
I was one of the fastest ships afloat at that time, one of the largest luxury liners before the war, and sailed without an escort.
Right.
And we boarded the ship in Boston Harbor along about 6 o'clock or so one evening.
And we were told that we'd be sailing that night.
I got up the next morning and all of us, there were about 20,000 of us, by the way, on that ship.
And we were stuffed into a place down in the hold.
Got up that morning.
The smell was terrible.
Everybody was sick.
And I went up on deck to try to get away from that horrible smell as quickly as I could.
Turned out that we had not even left the dock.
We were still tied up.
So it was all psychological.
Psychological warfare was already getting to you.
That's right.
Is that right?
You landed in Glasgow and then you went to the southern coast of England and finally across the channel.
Sort of talk about eventually joining up with the 79th Infantry Division, 314th Infantry, and sort of your travels after that.
Okay.
We landed at Le Harve and went through a couple of replacement depots, repo depots as they were called.
And then the last one then, well, next to the last one, we went by train riding the old 40 and 8s from World War I days, as a matter of fact.
Rode that across France.
And then at the last replacement depot, we were assigned then, several of us,
to the 79th, and the 314th specifically, so we boarded a truck then, and the truck took us on to our destination.
Mine happened to be with Company F, the 314th, and they were located outside of Hagenau, France, in the Alsace-Lorraine area.
Right.
You were a ground soldier.
You were an infantry soldier carrying a rifle.
Right.
You're, what, 19 years old?
No, at that time I was 18.
18 years old, from Pecos, Texas, one year at Texas A&M, and you find yourself
in Europe on the ground, in the cold, fighting against Germany.
That's right.
What goes through an 18-year-old's mind?
I mean, that's quite a shock, I guess, from one place to another.
Were you frightened?
Well, Tom, really, no.
This is why 18-year-olds are the ones who fight wars.
Because to an 18-year-old, he's immortal to begin with and has a protective shield around him.
Nothing's going to happen.
And so I really wasn't at that time.
Now, later on, there were times when I certainly was.
But at that point, though, I wasn't.
It was brutally cold.
And I remember that.
And I remember the sounds of machine gun fire,
both directions.
And then we eventually were taken from Magana, moved from the 7th Army where the division was located at that time, on around to the 9th Army.
And by around, it was around what then was the Bulge.
And the mission of our division then was to come in helping to pinch off the Bulge then from the north as the 3rd Army was coming in from the south.
So at that point, we were taking, now our first stop was in Nancy, France.
And at that point, one thing I remember the most was listening to actually Sally on the radio.
And we listened to her virtually every night we could if there was a radio anyplace because they played great music, good old American jazz and swing and so on.
And Axis Hallett came on this one particular night, and she said, you boys in the 79th, put your Cross of Lorraine patches back on.
You're in Nancy.
We know where you are.
We know where you're going.
You're going north.
And she hit her right on the butt, and that's exactly it.
Could never imagine why their intelligence was so good.
One of the biggest fights I know that you were involved in was at Campan, which is near the Roar River.
Mm-hmm.
to take over that river to open the paths to Cologne.
Talk about that, and there was an incident there where you earned a bronze star.
Talk about what happened and how that came about.
Well, camping was quite a battle all right.
And at one point, we were running low on ammunition, so our platoon leader asked for a volunteer then to go back to a regimental supply dump and to pick up ammunition to bring back.
So I volunteered, and another fellow named Leo Lincoln from Los Angeles was in my squad as well.
Leo volunteered, and the two of us headed on back then to do that.
We'd been told that our weapons company was going to provide machine gun overhead fire to keep the Germans' heads down and give us protection as we were heading on back.
Well, it had been rainy up until that day.
And this particular day, the sun was out.
It was a beautiful, sunshiny day.
And for some crazy reason, we were walking down this muddy road singing Stormy Weather.
They're, again, teenage kids.
So we got about halfway
back to regiment and suddenly dawned on us, the machine gun fire that we'd been hearing all the time was not friendly fire, not ours.
This was German fire coming towards us.
And we hadn't paid any attention to it before we'd heard the snaps and the cracks of the bullets as they went overhead.
And when it dawned on us that this was German fire, we stopped singing.
We went over to the sides of the road to get down as low as we could.
and evidently they couldn't bring the elevation down low enough on the machine guns to touch it, so all was well.
We got back to regiment, came back with the ammunition then, and it was after that then when I was put in then for the Bronze Star, and Leo was too for that matter, and for going back under, as they said, heavy enemy fire to pick up the ammunition.
Later, March 28, 1945, you were not injured seriously, but indeed you were injured and earned a Purple Heart.
Talk about that incident.
This was shortly after we crossed the Rhine, and we were going through an industrial area someplace on the outskirts of Dewsburg.
And Duisburg was at the north part of the Ruhr Valley, so the industrial heartland of Germany.
And as we were going through there, the Germans set up a terrific artillery barrage.
And generally, when they do something like that, they would also launch a counterattack then shortly after that.
So anyway, we were given orders then to take cover.
Didn't have to give us orders.
We were ready to take cover anyhow.
There was a bunker nearby, which I got into, and I was watching through a firing slit or a firing window on the side of the bunker and watching for the German soldiers coming towards us.
I didn't see any, but while I was there in that position, though, an incoming shell, and you can always tell if they're coming in or not, the incoming shell hit, and I had ducked down, turned my head,
And it hit right on that window that I was looking out of.
And as a consequence, I had shrapnel on my back and got a cut up here on the side of my head by my eye.
And so I was sent back to the first aid division, or division first aid, and then on back to the hospital.
They thought I had a punctured lung.
It turned out that it wasn't.
And so after a couple of weeks, I was put back on a truck and headed back to the outfit.
Headed back to action.
We've got several pictures from, as a matter of fact, from this scrapbook right here that Mr. Hobbs had supplied us.
We want to show them to you.
And there they are right there.
We start with that.
When was this one taken?
That was shortly after we reached the Ninth Army.
And I've had a two-day pass, I guess it was, to the age Belgium, which was just a short distance off the lines at the time.
That's why the big smile on your face.
Big smile.
Had some fresh coffee and donuts.
That looks like a gung-ho soldier right there.
That's a 60-millimeter mortar launcher.
You were part of a mortar unit.
Right.
Well, mortar squad.
Mortar squad.
Each rifle company has three rifle companies and one weapons company that has mortars and machine guns.
And I was in the mortar section there.
Okay.
Let's move on.
This is Muster, Aggie Muster, 21 April 1946 in Frankfurt, Germany.
Mm-hmm.
Talk about that and who's in that picture.
You're on the far left.
Yeah, that's me on the far left.
In the center, that picture doesn't show too well, the shadows, but that's Dwayne Bennett, who is a high school buddy of mine, also an Aggie buddy.
We came to A&M together.
And then on the right is another Aggie buddy, Melvin Maltz.
Melvin and I have been close friends, lowlies many, many years.
He and his wife Corky and my wife Laura and I get together quite often.
Go to dinner and go to different things together.
You've been a muster speaker last year in Midland.
You spoke at the muster there.
Right.
Want to go on because we've got the program from the muster next.
That's the program from that muster.
You can see the date.
21 April 1946, Frankfurt, Germany.
Signature is on the front of it.
And then we move to the next picture.
We turn that around.
This has got to be just a great possession of yours.
The million-dollar signatures, I guess that's the signatures of most all who were present at that muster.
Quite a few of them.
Probably about half of them.
Signatures in hometowns?
Mm-hmm.
That's got to bring back a lot of memories.
Okay, let's move on.
We've got some other pictures.
That's a great program right there.
When was this taken?
That was just after I got back to Pecos after the war.
After the war.
Mm-hmm.
Because you were there after the surrender of Germany.
We'll talk about that.
You stayed there for quite a while.
And we're going to talk about the entertainment group that you were with.
And I think we've got, there it is.
There's the program from it.
You've had it, Joe.
We're going to talk more about this later.
But after the surrender, you were part of a sort of a variety show that traveled around, right?
Mm-hmm.
That's right.
First Division.
set up that show it actually began as something that our battalion commander came up with to try to keep people occupied during the times they weren't doing close order drill during the post-war period.
And your act was as part of the Andrews sisters and there you are proudly sitting on the far right.
Right.
Do you remember the other two Andrews sisters in the picture?
Oh, yeah.
The one in the center is Doc Klusinski.
He was our medic and a great guy from Pennsylvania.
And the guy on the left was called Stoop Herman.
That's from a newspaper article.
That's right.
That picture comes from, a newspaper article about the traveling show and the variety show.
And you all sang a great rendition of
Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy, right?
That's right.
Just like the Andrews sister.
That's a great picture.
Except we used records, of course.
It wasn't our own voices.
That's right.
This is your first day back from Europe.
Was this taken in New York City?
Right.
That was at the Latin Quarter in New York City.
And that was a very famous nightclub at that time.
Right.
And I'm on the left, and that's Lloyd Dawson, who was in my squad in combat in the center.
And the one on the right, I can't recall his name at this point.
He came into the outfit just in time to go back home again.
All right.
Let's move on.
We've got a couple of more pictures.
Here is the shadow box of your awards.
And I know you're quite proud of all those, the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart in the middle, but you told me that those are not really the awards that you're proudest of.
Oh, I'm proudest of the one on top, the Combat Infantry Badge.
Right.
On the top right?
No, the top center.
Yeah, top center, of course.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Quite impressive.
Tell us about this.
Well...
After I'd been home for about seven months and six days, I received a check from Uncle Sam.
Note the amount.
This was 87 cents.
This was my mustering out pay.
It came a little bit late, my last paycheck.
Final paycheck from the Army.
Probably cost them a dollar to process this and mail it to you.
Probably.
87 cents.
So the bureaucracy was working well even back then.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I think we've got a picture coming up here on the left.
That is Laura.
Right.
You and Laura have been married over 60 years now.
Uh-huh.
Living here in Bryan College Station.
College Station.
That's you behind her whispering sweet things in her ear.
This was when you were back at Texas A&M after the war.
You were on a court trip to the A&M Rice football game in Houston.
That's right.
And this was at the Trianon nightclub down there.
Right.
And I think we've got a picture of wedding day.
That would have been, what, Valentine's Day of 1948?
Valentine's Day of 1948.
She was my valentine.
I usually say I was her valentine.
And you still are.
Oh, yeah.
That's a great picture.
You've written a book, along with our friend Benjamin Knox, who, of course, does the illustrations.
I knew I was an Aggie Wynn.
Talk to us a little bit about that.
Well, first of all, the proceeds of it go to the Cushing Library, which was a library that we knew when we were in school here.
And it's a great place to go.
Wonderful artwork, things like that in the Cushing.
And the book itself is a series of vignettes about different Aggies and stories that they've told then about when they first knew they were an Aggie.
I know you're proud of that.
Oh, yeah.
It's kind of interesting to go through.
You're proud of that.
We're a little bit short on time, but we talked about after the war and you finally did come home, you re-enrolled in Texas A&M and graduated in 1949.
And after that, you joined the Air Force for four years.
Talk about your duty.
It was during the Korean War, but you were actually assigned to England.
Talk about your duty there.
When I graduated from A&M, I was commissioned in the Air Force.
So I ended up being assigned to Strategic Air Command.
I was an intelligence officer.
And we maintained a detachment in England.
And we'd rotate crews and planes back and forth to this detachment in England, Scalthorpe, up near the Watch east of London.
The operation eventually was photomapping Europe all the way from the Atlantic Ocean clear back to the Urals.
Kind of interestingly, at the time that they were over the heart of Russia, Soviet Union, doing the mapping, we had a British crew trained and flying the airplanes, all of the American airplanes.
We had six of them over there.
had the British RAF bullseyes painted on them with the American Signet taken off, British crews flying them.
So in the event that something went down, why this being the Cold War, early days in the middle 50s, they wouldn't be blaming us for it.
Right, right, right.
This was obviously pretty fascinating work, a lot of travel back and forth.
Oh, yeah, very much so.
And then after that, well, I was target intelligence officer in Goose Bay Labrador for the 8th Air Force then for a period of time.
Indeed.
So both Army and Air Force.
I want you to talk about, of course, after you came back and joined the civilian life, I know you sold insurance for a while.
You worked for Procter & Gamble.
You and your wife, like I said, was married in 1948, went into the food brokerage business in Dallas, but finally made your way back to Texas A&M to teach management.
Talk about that.
When I retired from business in 1985,
I was asked to come back to teach in the management department.
Michael Hitt, outstanding man, asked me to come back and teach there, and so I did.
Later on then, I became director of the Center for Executive Development, also in the College of Business.
I was there for about five years.
I retired from A&M in 1996.
And kind of hard to remember there now.
Continued teaching a leadership program on a volunteer basis for about five years.
You volunteered because you didn't want to have to go to meetings, right?
That's right.
If they didn't pay me, they couldn't make me go to meetings.
And that was a lot of fun.
Thoroughly enjoyed being with the students.
Indeed.
Talk about your family.
I know that you and Laura have four boys.
Right.
And two boys that went to the other school and twins that came to Texas A&M.
That's right.
Our two oldest boys became TSEPs.
They were rebelling against the old man.
And then the twins, the two youngest one, came to A&M.
They graduated in 1984.
And you've got three grandkids and four kids.
For great-grandchildren.
And some of them are fairly close to here, so I guess you get to see some of them sometimes.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, we see some who live in Dallas.
All of our grandkids and great-grandkids live in Dallas, except for one who lives in Columbus, Ohio.
Right.
And so we have one other son who lives in Austin and no children.
You look back at your service in the Army and the Air Force, your World War II service, I know that it's something that's
that you're very proud of as all veterans are proud of.
You look back of it, and what do you think now when you look back at that 18-year-old kid and what he did?
Well, I guess probably the number one thing at this point is the fact that I'm glad that I went through it, but I certainly wouldn't want to do that again.
Right.
But I met some outstanding people.
I think that my old company commander during combat I think was probably
one if not the most outstanding person I've ever known, the things that he did for his troops, putting himself in a situation where he could easily have been killed just simply to keep the rest of us out of some of the extra things that could have happened.
Duke Cobbs, thank you very much for your service.
We're out of time, and I appreciate you joining us today.
Thank you very much, Tom.
Enjoyed it.
And Aggie, through and through, Duke Cobbs was one of the many young teenage A&M freshmen who grew up quickly with a rifle and a duty in World War II.
He returned to A&M twice after the war to finish his studies and then later to teach.
We salute Duke Cobbs for his service as we do all veterans.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.